+++
title = "Philosophy: 1st Perception Paper"
date = 2022-10-09
+++
<p>This isn't my first paper in the Fall semester but it is my first philosophy paper ever. I read someone else's paper and they answer the same prompt.</p> 
<p><em>"Dretske argues that perception is not permeated by cognition. How does his argument go? Do you find it convincing? Discuss. In writing this essay, be precise not only about what Dretske is affirming, but also about what he is denying. Please bring in at least one other author we have read (e.g. Siegel, Anscombe, Strawson)."</em></p>
<p>My problem isn't that my argument is invalid. I think it's valid. I just don't think I represented the arguments correctly based on what I read from the other person's paper.</p>
<p>In this paper, I will present Fred Dretske’s argument against Susanna Siegel's claim that there exist properties only within cognition and not perception that can change the way you see something. In section I, I will introduce both arguments and explain their key terms. In section II, I will go over Dretske’s main argument, what he’s not saying, and explain the Goldilocks test. In section III, I will go over a potential circularity problem from Siegel, raise a question about Dretske’s Goldilocks test from the perspective of Siegel, and include a potential response from Dretske. Section IV will include a disagreement with the potential response from Dretske by introducing the idea of time and my conclusion.</p>
<p>I</p>
<p>Siegel’s relevant argument to Dretske comes from “thesis K”. Siegel’s Thesis K is that “In some visual experiences, some K-properties are represented” (Siegel, pp. 2). Siegel defines K-properties as “...any properties other than color, shape, illumination, motion, their co-instantiation in objects and succession thereof” (Siegel, pp. 2). It’s hard to imagine properties that are outside of this scope. However, it’s possible to imagine these properties as something essential to an object yet indescribable. Another way to explain this is that it has something to do with cognition, not perception, yet it changes how you see something. It’s similar to trying to describe the essence of an object while removing properties such as colors and shapes. This is a helpful way of thinking about it because it’s related to Dretske’s example.</p>
<p>Dretske argues that the fundamental idea that your perception is affected by some non-visual property, a property that has to do with your cognition, isn’t real. To be clear, Dretske isn’t making the claim that what you know or focus on doesn’t change what you perceive. It’s obvious that it does and he acknowledges this. He’s arguing “whether the cognitive differences can alter the experience without changing the stimulus” (Dretske, pp. 3). Dretske introduces the idea of pure perception to raise questions about Siegel’s “K-properties”. To make the argument for pure perception, Dretske created the Goldilocks test.</p>
<p>II</p>
<p>To show the Goldilocks test, Dretske created a scenario where we have a novice (N) and an expert (E). The expert knows everything there is to know about pine trees and the novice knows nothing about pine trees other than what he visually sees in front of him. In this paper, I’m using “sees” in the common sense view. Under Siegel’s view, it’s assumed that because the expert has knowledge about the pine trees that the novice doesn’t have, the expert has a different visual experience than the novice due to K-properties.</p>
<p>In this simple scenario, E asks N to paint a pine tree. Dretske comes up with 3 options for how the painting will be received by the expert–hence the name Goldilocks test. The first way is that N draws too little so the expert thinks it’s not a worthy painting. The second way is that N draws too much so it too is not a worthy painting. The third way is that N depicts the pine tree in the exact same way that E would so that there’s nothing E would add or take away from the painting.</p>
<p>The problem with the first option is that if N asks E to fill out what’s missing from the painting and if E obliges, then what was missing wasn’t some special K-property but rather a spatial arrangement which would only require pure perception and not cognition. The problem with the second option is that if N painted a specific type of pine tree instead of the general properties of pine trees, who’s to say that the specific pine tree doesn’t share the same qualities that all the other pine trees share? It just so happens that N painted a pine tree with added properties specific to one type of pine tree. This doesn’t mean that N didn’t paint the pine tree correctly. The problem with the third option is that if N is able to depict the same thing that E sees then there aren’t any K-properties. This is because N's lack of knowledge about pine trees wouldn’t have prevented N from painting the correct thing.</p>
<p>III</p>
<p>There’s a potential circularity issue in Siegel’s view, if we use Dretske’s phrase, “words themselves can be and often are used to describe mental states already contaminated by cognitive elements” (Dretske, pp. 2). Siegel uses the word “representation” to describe what you see in visual experience. This is potentially a problem because to represent something means that you depict it which implies a “cognitive element” as Dretske would say. The reason this is circular is because you’re asked to explain how cognition and perception are tied but you use words that imply that what you’re being asked to prove is already true. </p>
<p>We can raise an interesting question using Siegel’s perspective regarding Dretske’s Goldilocks test. Is it not possible that E requires cognition to know what is not correctly arranged spatially? What would happen if the environment N paints for E doesn’t correspond with where pine trees usually grow? They grow in environments with rich and moist soil. Isn’t the environment tied to E’s idea of pine tree-ness? If N paints a pine tree in a black hole, a volcano, a desert or any nonsensical environment for a pine tree to grow isn’t that something E would disagree with and try to correct on the canvas? <p>
<p>Dretske could say that it doesn’t matter because it’s related to the 1st option where it’s more about a spatial arrangement rather than a cognitive difference even if knowledge changes what you focus on. Regardless of this knowledge, the only thing you’re changing is the environment which is something that doesn’t fit the definition of a K-property anyways because it includes colors and shapes.</p>
<p>IV</p>
<p>It’s possible that there isn’t some K-property that changes your perception while seeing something wrong in the environment. However, an important factor to consider which I don’t think Dretske brings up is time. Let’s say that N paints a pine tree in a desert but it’s night time so all E sees for this short time, is a pine tree but E feels that something is off about the painting. E can’t put his finger on it but there is definitely something wrong in what he sees. In this short time, is E not experiencing something which Siegel would say is related to a K-property? If you take two images and something changes but you can’t tell what and you feel like something is different then you might experience the same feeling. Due to the word limit, I’m not sure what a Dretske response would look like.</p>
<p>Dretske doesn’t expand past the idea of the pine tree. However, I believe that Dretske and Siegel are talking about something more than just a pine tree. It seems like what Dretske and Siegel are getting at is the essence of an object which is a topic that goes back to the time of Plato and Aristotle. I’m uncertain that Dretske or Siegel would argue that the essence of an object includes visual properties. The reason for this is because we can take something like a vehicle and assign to it different colors and shapes and say that it’s still a vehicle. We can remove or add properties like wheels and it would still fit the description of a vehicle. It would be interesting to see Dretske and Siegel come up with an answer to the question, “What is the essence of an object?” if they came together to share ideas.</p>
<p>Works Cited: </p>

<p>Dretske, Fred. “Perception versus Conception.” The Cognitive Penetrability of Perception, 2015,
pp. 1–10., https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198738916.003.0007.</p>

<p>Siegel, Susanna. “Which Properties Are Represented in Perception?” Perceptual Experience, 2006, pp. 1–26., https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199289769.003.0015.</p>
